---
layout: default
title: Hans Halvorson's personal page 
---

# Current research

I currently have three main projects that give focus to my research.

## Niels Bohr: Philosopher in Action

An intellectual biography of Niels Bohr (Joint work with Anja Skaar
Jacobsen)

## Philosophical Lessons of the Theory of Relativity

Relativity theory might seem less philosophically provocative than
quantum physics, and easier to read literally, i.e. as telling us how
things are (in themselves). In fact, one might say that there is
something of a consensus among philosophers about how to read
relativity theory. But that has not always been the case --- and I'm
convinced that if there is a consensus now, then it rests on some
indefensible presuppositions.
   
## Meta-Philosophy and Theoretical Equivalence

It's possible to make up some precise (mathematically rigorous)
versions of familiar concepts. For example, in the 19th century,
mathematicians came up with definitions for concepts such as a
function being continuous, or of a collection being infinite. In the
20th century, mathematical logicians continued this practice by
proposing definitions for concepts such as provability, truth (in a
structure), and equivalence (of theories).

But some philosophers complain about this methodology, saying that the
notion of equivalence is "not formal", or even more extremely, that
it's a bad idea to talk about *theories* in the first place -- rather
than about more solid things such as *facts*. I remain convinced that
meta-theoretic concepts (i.e. concepts about our representations and
how they relate to the world) are useful, and that explication of such
concepts is a valuable practice. But it's important to clarify what we
attend to achieve via this methodology.

# About me

<p> <a href="https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3022-2344"
                            target="orcid.widget" rel="noopener
                            noreferrer" style="vertical-align:top;">
                            <img
                            src="https://orcid.org/sites/default/files/images/orcid_16x16.png"
                            style="width:1em;margin-right:.5em;"
                            alt="ORCID iD icon"> 0000-0003-3022-2344
                            </a> on <a
                            href="https://orcid.org">orcid.org</a>
                            </p>
							
<div id="philpeople-component-follow_btn"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://philpeople.org/components/follow_btn?props%5B%3Aprofile_id_prop%5D=8358&amp;props%5Bcontext%5D=external"></script>							


